feat(docs): add tabs for deploying contract with cli and aztec.js (#1703)
AztecProtocol/aztec-packages: docs/docs/dev_docs/contracts/deploying.md

# Deploying contracts

Once you have [compiled](./compiling.md) your contracts you can proceed to deploying them using the aztec-cli or using aztec.js which is a Typescript client to interact with the sandbox.

## Prerequisites

> - aztec-cli installed (go to [CLI main section](./main.md) for installation instructions)

Reviewer: This seems to be the wrong link? It is just pointing to contract, and not to the cli docs.

## Deploy

Contracts can be deployed using the `aztec-cli` or using the `aztec.js` library. 

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

<Tabs groupId="deployment-methods">
<TabItem value="cli" label="Aztec CLI">

```bash
aztec-cli deploy /path/to/contract/abi.json
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="js" label="Aztec.js">

> Pre-requisite - Generate type-safe typescript classes for your contract when compiling:

Reviewer: Is there a way to do this from aztec js as well? Ideally, want to support doing it fully programatically with aztec js and not having to touch the cli for some tests etc.

Reviewer 2: https://github.com/AztecProtocol/aztec-packages/blob/master/docs/docs/dev_docs/contracts/compiling.md#compile-using-nodejs

@spalladino has thought of everything :)

Author: nope there isn't afaik :(

```bash
aztec-cli compile /path/to/example_contract -ts /path/to/your/ts/files
```
This would create a typescript file like `Example.ts` in the path specified. More details in the [compiling page](./compiling.md)

Now you can import to easily deploy and use the class.
```ts
import { ExampleContract } from './Example.js';

const tx = ExampleContract.deploy(aztecRpc).send();

> await tx.isMined({ interval: 0.5 });

Reviewer: Were the `isMined` not deprecated?

By default is set to a random value.
Set it, if you need a deterministic contract address (same functionality as Ethereum's `CREATE2` opcode).

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="js" label="Aztec.js">

The `deploy()` method is generated automatically with the typescript class representing your contract. It requires the RPC to be passed (this can be the `AztecRPC` client) and any arguments to be passed to the constructor.

Additionally the `.send()` method can has a few optional arguments too, which are specified in an optional object:
- `portalContract?: EthAddress`: The L1 portal address to link the contract to. See the section on [Portals to learn more about them](./portals/main.md)

> - `contractAddressSalt?: Fr`: A salt that can be passed which is used to compute the contract address of the contract being deployed. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- `contractAddressSalt?: Fr`: A salt which is one of the inputs when computing a contract address of the contract to be deployed. 
```

Reformulated this a bit because it sounded a bit as if the salt was the only input.

By default is set to a random value.
Set it, if you need a deterministic contract address (same functionality as Ethereum's `CREATE2` opcode).

```ts
const tx = ExampleContract.deploy(aztecRpc).send({ 

>     portalContract: EthAddress.from("0x1234..."),

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    portalContract: EthAddress.from("0x1234..."),
    contractAddressSalt: new Fr(3n),
```

I think it would look better to lay out all the options here.

});
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Deploying private token contract
To give you a more complete example we will deploy the `PrivateToken` contract whose artifacts are included in the `@aztec/noir-contracts` package.

The contract has `initial_supply` and `owner` as constructor arguments.
Because the contract sends a note to the owner specified inside the constructor, we need their public key to encrypt the note with. For this, we first need to register the owner as a recipient inside the Aztec RPC with the following command:

<Tabs groupId="deployment-methods">
<TabItem value="cli" label="Aztec CLI">

```bash
aztec-cli register-recipient --address 0x147392a39e593189902458f4303bc6e0a39128c5a1c1612f76527a162d36d529 --public-key 0x26e193aef4f83c70651485b5526c6d01a36d763223ab24efd1f9ff91b394ac0c20ad99d0ef669dc0dde8d5f5996c63105de8e15c2c87d8260b9e6f02f72af622 --partial-address 0x200e9a6c2d2e8352012e51c6637659713d336405c29386c7c4ac56779ab54fa7
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="js" label="Aztec.js">

```ts

> await aztecRpc.registerRecipient(completeAddress);

Reviewer: Here it would probably be nice if you point to what a complete address is. Just something like adding `const completeAddress = `.

```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

When you create a new account, it gets automatically registered. It can be verified by calling `aztec-cli get-accounts` OR in aztec.js by using `await aztecRpc.getAccounts()`

> **NOTE 1**: If we didn't register owner as a recipient we could not encrypt a note for the owner and the contract deployment would fail because constructor execution would fail (we need owner's public key to encrypt a note).

> **NOTE 2**: If a note recipient is one of the accounts inside the Aztec RPC, we don't need to register it as a recipient because we already have the public key available.

Once the recipient is registered we can deploy the contract:

<Tabs groupId="deployment-methods">
<TabItem value="cli" label="Aztec CLI">

```bash
aztec-cli deploy PrivateTokenContractAbi --args 1000 0x147392a39e593189902458f4303bc6e0a39128c5a1c1612f76527a162d36d529
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="js" label="Aztec.js">

```ts
// PrivateTokenContract is the TS interface that is automatically generated when compiling the contract with the `-ts` flag.
const initialBalance = 1000n;
const owner = AztecAddress.from("0x147392a39e593189902458f4303bc6e0a39128c5a1c1612f76527a162d36d529");

> contract = await PrivateTokenContract.deploy(wallet, initialBalance, owner).send().deployed();

Reviewer: Know it is snippet, but would just add a `const` here:
```suggestion
const contract = await PrivateTokenContract.deploy(wallet, initialBalance, owner).send().deployed();
```

logger(`Contract deployed at ${contract.address}`);
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

If everything went as expected you should see the following output (with a different address):

> > Contract deployed at 0x151de6120ae6628129ee852c5fc7bcbc8531055f76d4347cdc86003bbea96906

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Contract deployed at `0x151de6120ae6628129ee852c5fc7bcbc8531055f76d4347cdc86003bbea96906`
```

If we pass the salt as an argument:

<Tabs groupId="deployment-methods">
<TabItem value="cli" label="Aztec CLI">

```bash
aztec-cli deploy PrivateTokenContractAbi --args 1000 0x147392a39e593189902458f4303bc6e0a39128c5a1c1612f76527a162d36d529 --salt 0x123
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="js" label="Aztec.js">

```ts

> contract = await PrivateTokenContract.deploy(wallet, initialBalance, owner).send({ contractAddressSalt: Fr.fromString("0x123") }).deployed();

Reviewer: More api wise, but why are we not just calling it a salt?

Author: unsure 🤷

> contract = await PrivateTokenContract.deploy(wallet, initialBalance, owner).send({ contractAddressSalt: Fr.fromString("0x123") }).deployed();

Reviewer: ```suggestion
const contract = await PrivateTokenContract.deploy(wallet, initialBalance, owner).send({ contractAddressSalt: Fr.fromString("0x123") }).deployed();
```
